[expo-router][docs] add 55->56 migration guide (#45216)
expo/expo: docs/pages/router/migrate/sdk-55-to-56.mdx

---
title: Migrate Expo Router from SDK 55 to SDK 56
sidebar_title: SDK 55 to 56

> description: Learn how to migrate Expo Router from SDK 55 to 56.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to migrate Expo Router from SDK 55 to 56 using a codemod or manually.
```

Just a suggestion since the description and the title are same here and description can contain the context of what are the available methods.

---

import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

> Starting with SDK 56, Expo Router no longer supports importing from external `@react-navigation/*` packages in application code. Update those imports to the matching `expo-router` entry points. The runtime API is unchanged - only the module specifiers move.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In **SDK 56 and later**, Expo Router no longer supports importing from external `@react-navigation/*` packages in application code. Update those imports to the matching `expo-router` entry points. The runtime API is unchanged &mdhash; only the module specifiers move.
```

Suggestion to use the writing styleguide recommended verbiage:https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md#sdk-version-range-callouts

## Automated migration

> Run the codemod from the root of your project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the codemod from the root of your project. It rewrites `@react-navigation/*` imports in your application code to the matching `expo-router` entry points. 
```

I think a little explanation on what the codemod does, will be a great way to tell a developer on what to expect.

| React Navigation source               | Expo Router target                                                              |
| ------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `@react-navigation/native`            | `expo-router/react-navigation`                                                  |
| `@react-navigation/core`              | `expo-router/react-navigation`                                                  |
| `@react-navigation/elements`          | `expo-router/react-navigation`                                                  |
| `@react-navigation/routers`           | `expo-router/react-navigation`                                                  |
| `@react-navigation/stack`             | `expo-router/js-stack`                                                          |
| `@react-navigation/bottom-tabs`       | `expo-router/js-tabs`                                                           |
| `@react-navigation/material-top-tabs` | `expo-router/js-top-tabs`                                                       |

> | `@react-navigation/native-stack`      | No direct equivalent. Use the [`Stack`](/router/advanced/stack) layout instead. |

Reviewer: Should we mention drawer here?

Author: Good point 👍

## Libraries

Many third-party libraries still import from `@react-navigation/core`. To ease the SDK 56 transition, Expo CLI automatically rewrites those imports to `expo-router` when they originate from **node_modules**. Your application code is unaffected by this rewrite.

This is a temporary compatibility shim. A dedicated library migration guide will explain the replacement before the automatic rewrite is removed.

> To opt out, set `EXPO_ROUTER_DISABLE_RN_NAVIGATION_CHECK=1` before starting the bundler. This also disables the bundler error for application code that imports from `@react-navigation/*`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To opt out, set `EXPO_ROUTER_DISABLE_RN_NAVIGATION_CHECK=1` in your environment before starting the bundler. This also disables the bundler error for application code that imports from `@react-navigation/*`.

<Terminal cmd={['$ EXPO_ROUTER_DISABLE_RN_NAVIGATION_CHECK=1 npx expo start']} />
```

Just a small nit for clarity. Also, this gives the developer, a quick way to copy the command, if required.
